Add batched EVM transaction walkthrough (#983)
onflow/docs: docs/evm/cadence/batched-evm-transactions.md

---
title: Batched EVM Transactions Using Cadence
sidebar_label: Batched EVM Transactions
sidebar_position: 6
---

Integrating Cadence into EVM applications on Flow enables developers to leverage the best of both worlds.
This guide demonstrates how to batch EVM transactions using Cadence, allowing applications to embed multiple EVM
transactions in a single Cadence transaction, conditioning final execution on the success of all EVM transactions.

This feature can supercharge your EVM application by unlocking experiences otherwise impossible on traditional EVM
platforms.

## Objectives

After completing this guide, you'll be able to

> - Construct a Cadence transaction that executes several EVM transactions such that if any EVM transaction fails, the

Reviewer: Great LOs!

  entire set will revert

> - Read and write from smart contract functions on [EVM Flowscan](https://evm.flowscan.io/)

Reviewer: Do you mind converting these to reference-style links?  It makes it much easier to read the raw content, and more practicable to link to the same thing multiple times.

Author: Updated in [465bc68](https://github.com/onflow/docs/pull/983/commits/465bc68a75459e244299f20e14d15102d80a9610)

The point is, while a simple use case, this guide will give you the tools to build much more complex and interesting
applications. So let's get started!

## Components

As mentioned in the [Overview](#overview), this guide involves three main actions:

- Wrapping FLOW as WFLOW
- Approving an ERC721 to transfer WFLOW in exchange for an NFT mint
- Minting an ERC721 token

Before interacting with these contracts, let's dig in a bit more into the components of this guide.

### Wrap FLOW as WFLOW

On Flow EVM, FLOW is the native currency and similar to other EVM platforms, the native currency is not accessible as an
ERC20 token. To interact with ERC20 contracts, you need to wrap FLOW as WFLOW (Wrapped FLOW). This is Flow's equivalent
of WETH on Ethereum.

:::tip

You can find WFLOW deployed to `0xd3bF53DAC106A0290B0483EcBC89d40FcC961f3e` on Flow
[Testnet](https://evm-testnet.flowscan.io/token/0xd3bF53DAC106A0290B0483EcBC89d40FcC961f3e?tab=contract) &
[Mainnet](https://evm.flowscan.io/token/0xd3bF53DAC106A0290B0483EcBC89d40FcC961f3e?tab=contract) and source code in the
[`@onflow/flow-sol-utils` repository](https://github.com/onflow/flow-sol-utils).

:::

### Approve ERC721 Transfer

> Our example `MaybeMintERC721` contract accepts WFLOW in exchange for minting an NFT. However, the contract cannot move

Reviewer: Great description of what wrapped Flow is, but _why_ would we need it here instead of just regular, unwrapped Flow?

Reviewer: It's fine if it's just to demonstrate the complex chain of transactions, but I'd be explicit as to why.

WFLOW without your permission. To allow the contract to move your WFLOW, you must approve the contract to transfer
enough of your WFLOW to mint the NFT.

### Mint ERC721 Token

Finally, we'll mint an ERC721 token using the `MaybeMintERC721` contract. This contract has a 50% chance of failing,
simulating a real-world scenario where purchasing an NFT might fail - say a listing was purchased before your
transaction was processed.

Importantly, if this transaction fails, we want to revert the entire sequence of transactions. After all, you wrapped
FLOW to WFLOW and approved the ERC721 transfer specifically to mint this NFT. If the mint fails, you want to unwind
everything. This is where batching EVM transactions using Cadence is extremely powerful.

## Interacting with the Contracts

Before taking the easy route, let's first interact with the contracts individually to better understand the process and

> status quo user experience. Realistically, this is your only option for completing the whole process on other EVM

Reviewer: This is such a great approach

platforms.

:::tip

Recall in [Prerequisites](#prerequisites) that you need to have both MetaMask and Flow Wallet installed and funded with
Testnet FLOW. Make sure you've done so before proceeding.

:::

### Using MetaMask

#### 1. Wrap FLOW

Our first action will be to wrap enough FLOW to cover the cost of minting the `MaybeMintERC721` token. To do this, we'll
interact with the `WFLOW` contract on Testnet. There are a number of ways we could interact with this contract - Remix
IDE, Foundry's CLI, Hardhat, etc. - but for the purposes of this guide, we'll use the [Flowscan EVM block
explorer](https://www.evm-testnet.flowscan.io/).

> 

Reviewer: I'd add a :::warning here about the evm vs. Cadence versions of FlowScan

Author: Fixed in [c19893b](https://github.com/onflow/docs/pull/983/commits/c19893b7ade1cd95602c6ab00f9c81bd77b149b4)

Navigate to the WFLOW Testnet contract on Flowscan:
[WFLOW](https://evm-testnet.flowscan.io/token/0xd3bF53DAC106A0290B0483EcBC89d40FcC961f3e?tab=write_contract). Ensure
you're on the "Write Contract" tab which allows you to interact with the contract's mutating functions. 

Before you can interact with the contract, you need to connect your MetaMask wallet to the Flowscan EVM block explorer.
Click the "Connect" button in the top right corner and follow the prompts to connect your MetaMask wallet.

![Connect wallet to Flowscan](./flowscan-connect.png)

Once connected, you should see your address in the top right corner and above the contract's functions.

Now we can wrap FLOW. Click on the `deposit` method which will drop down an input field for the amount of FLOW you want
to wrap. The mint amount for the `MaybeMintERC721` contract is 1 whole FLOW which in EVM terms is `1e18 wei` - `wei`
being the smallest unit of an EVM's native currency (inherited from Ethereum's units - more on Ether units

> [here](https://www.cyfrin.io/glossary/ether-and-wei-code-example)).

Reviewer: I'd probably link to the Solidity docs here instead of a random vendor (unless we have a relationship with them)

https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/v0.8.28/units-and-global-variables.html#ether-units

> Your input field should have `1 000 000 000 000 000 000` in it as shown below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As shown below, put `1 000 000 000 000 000 000` in the input field for `deposit`.
```

![Deposit 1 FLOW to WFLOW contract](./wflow-deposit.png)

> You can now click the "Write" button to submit the transaction. Once MetaMask prompts you to sign the transaction, click

Author: Updated in [9aca873](https://github.com/onflow/docs/pull/983/commits/9aca87319a7d516f6bb7365d4ed9f532131720d8)

contract on Flowscan:
[MaybeMintERC721](https://evm-testnet.flowscan.io/address/0x2E2Ed0Cfd3AD2f1d34481277b3204d807Ca2F8c2?tab=write_contract).

Again, you'll be met with the contract functions on the "Write Contract" tab. Click on the `mint` function which takes
no arguments - just click on "Write" and then "Confirm" in the resulting MetaMask window.

This contract has a 50% chance of failing on mint using onchain randomness. If it fails, simply mint again until it
succeeds.

On success, you can click on your NFTs in MetaMask to see your newly minted token.

![MaybeMintERC721 in MetaMask NFT list](./maybe-mint-in-metamask.png)

#### Recap

This process is cumbersome and requires multiple transactions, each of which could fail. Given the intent of the
process - minting an NFT - if this were a case where the NFT was a limited edition or time-sensitive, you'd be left with
WFLOW wrapped and approved for transfer, but no NFT and would need to manually unwind the process.

Or you could just use Cadence to batch these transactions and revert everything if the mint fails. Let's do that.

> ### Using Flow Wallet

Reviewer: H2?

Author: As is, the outline works out to be

```markdown
- [Objectives](#objectives)
- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Overview](#overview)
- [Components](#components)
  - [Wrap FLOW as WFLOW](#wrap-flow-as-wflow)
  - [Approve ERC721 Transfer](#approve-erc721-transfer)
  - [Mint ERC721 Token](#mint-erc721-token)
- [Interacting with the Contracts](#interacting-with-the-contracts)
  - [Using MetaMask](#using-metamask)
  - [Using Flow Wallet](#using-flow-wallet)
- [Breaking it Down](#breaking-it-down)
  - [COA Configuration](#coa-configuration)
  - [Funding the COA](#funding-the-coa)
  - [Setting our EVM Contract Targets](#setting-our-evm-contract-targets)
  - [Wrapping FLOW as WFLOW](#wrapping-flow-as-wflow)
  - [Approving the ERC721 Contract](#approving-the-erc721-contract)
  - [Minting the ERC721 Token](#minting-the-erc721-token)
- [Conclusion](#conclusion)
- [Further Reading](#further-reading)
```

I think "Using Flow Wallet" makes sense in the same section as "Using MetaMask" unless there's objection.

        let approveResult = self.coa.call(
            to: self.wflowAddress,
            data: approveCalldata,
            gasLimit: 15_000_000,
            value: EVM.Balance(attoflow: 0)
        )
        assert(
            approveResult.status == EVM.Status.successful,
            message: "Approving ERC721 address on WFLOW contract failed: ".concat(approveResult.errorMessage)
        )

        /* Attempt to mint ERC721 */
        //
        // Encode the mint() calldata
        let mintCalldata = EVM.encodeABIWithSignature("mint()", [])
        // Call the ERC721 contract, attempting to mint
        let mintResult = self.coa.call(
            to: self.erc721Address,
            data: mintCalldata,
            gasLimit: 15_000_000,
            value: EVM.Balance(attoflow: 0)
        )
        // If mint fails, all other actions in this transaction are reverted
        assert(
            mintResult.status == EVM.Status.successful,
            message: "Minting ERC721 token failed: ".concat(mintResult.errorMessage)
        )
    }
}

```
</details>

You can run the transaction at the following link using the community-developed Flow Runner tool:

> [`wrap_and_mint.cdc`](https://run.dnz.dev/snippet/4fe0d43fdaf968b9).

Reviewer: I've got lots of errors in Flow runner.  Is this expected?  Can we fix it?

Reviewer: And I was missing the window for arguments.  Came back after refreshing.  Anything we can do about that?  Is this common?

Author: Worth reporting to @bluesign (maintainer for the tool). I think it may be a matter of the language server having a chance to pull dependencies from Testnet/Mainnet

This transaction takes two arguments:
- WFLOW contract address: `0xd3bF53DAC106A0290B0483EcBC89d40FcC961f3e`
- MaybeMintERC721 contract address: `0x2E2Ed0Cfd3AD2f1d34481277b3204d807Ca2F8c2`

> Before running, ensure that the network section - bottom left corner - displays Testnet. If not, click and select

Reviewer: Bottom right?

Author: Good catch, got my directions swapped

Author: Fixed in [c19893b](https://github.com/onflow/docs/pull/983/commits/c19893b7ade1cd95602c6ab00f9c81bd77b149b4)

"Testnet" as your network and refresh. Once you've confirmed you're Flow Runner is targeting Testnet, copy these
addresses and paste them into the respective fields on the Flow Runner page. Click "Run" on the top left and follow the
prompts to connect your Flow Wallet and sign the transaction.

:::warning

Although we are running a manual transaction for the purposes of this walkthrough, you should always be careful to
review the transaction details before signing and submitting.

:::

Again, since the ERC721 has a 50% chance of failing, you may need to run the transaction multiple times until it

> succeeds. However note that if the mint fails, the entire transaction will revert, unwinding the wrapped FLOW and

Reviewer: Isn't the fail state more interesting here?  I'd go through that first.

Reviewer: And highlight/demonstrate that none of the things have happened

Author: Updated in [fa5afba](https://github.com/onflow/docs/pull/983/commits/fa5afbab32c76588fdd5feb139a95fd11f5d3946)

approval.

Once you submit a successful transaction, you'll see a transaction ID with event logs in the Flow Runner output. Let's
take a closer look at the transaction and its results in the Flowscan block explorer.

![Flow Runner output on successful transaction execution](./flow-runner-successful-output.png)

Copy your transaction ID and go to the Flowscan Testnet Cadence block explorer: [Flowscan
Cadence](https://testnet.flowscan.io/).

Pasting your transaction ID into the search bar will show you the transaction details, including the Cadence script,
execution status, and event logs. Click on the "EVM" tab to view the EVM transactions batched in the Cadence
transaction.

![Embedded EVM transactions on Flowscan](./evm-embed-flowscan.png)

Clicking on the transactions will open up the EVM transaction in Flowscan's EVM block explorer. If you view the EVM
transactions in order, you'll notice that they aggregate the same actions we took manually in the MetaMask section, but
this time in a single Cadence transaction!

> :::tip

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::warning
```

> At this point you may realize there are two block explorers on Flow - one for Cadence activity and another for EVM

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two **separate** block explorers for Flow - one for Cadence activity and another for EVM
```

3. Attempts to mint a `MaybeMintERC721` token

But how does our Flow account interact with EVM from the Cadence runtime? As you'll recall from the [Interacting with
COA](./interacting-with-coa.md) guide, we use a Cadence-owned account (COA) to interact with EVM contracts from
Cadence.

A COA is a [resource](https://cadence-lang.org/docs/solidity-to-cadence#resources) providing an interface through which
Cadence can interact with the EVM runtime. This is importantly ***in addition*** to the traditional routes you'd
normally access normal EVMs - e.g. via the JSON-RPC API. And with this interface, we can take advantage of all of the
benefits of Cadence - namely here scripted transactions and conditional execution.

So in addition to the above steps, our transaction first configures a COA in the signer's account if one doesn't already
exist. It then funds the COA with enough FLOW to cover the mint cost, sourcing funds from the signing Flow account's
Cadence Vault. Finally, it wraps FLOW as WFLOW, approves the ERC721 contract to move the mint amount, and attempts to
mint the ERC721 token.

Let's see what each step looks like in the transaction code.

> ### COA Configuration

Reviewer: Would it be possible to guide the learner through **building** this script along the way, testing it one step at a time?

Author: Good suggestion. I'll work on expanding these sections into their own transactions with follow up scripts, I think you're right and that would enhance learning.

Author: Added in [4375b69](https://github.com/onflow/docs/pull/983/commits/4375b69cfeb6214c32c33a1349d9f9e85f537c60)

The first step in our transaction is to configure a COA in the signer's account if one doesn't already exist. This is

> done by creating a new COA resource and saving it to the signer account's storage. A public Capability on the COA is

Reviewer: This is such a common thing.  Is there a way to stick this snippet on a contract and teach everyone to use the deployed canonical version instead??

Author: I suppose we could, but it's generally an anti-pattern to pass around entitled `&Account` references into contracts. Very easy way to get your account looted.

The downside of the flexibility afforded by Cadence in transactions is you end up with a lot of boilerplate - setting up Vaults, NFT Collections, etc are all several lines to configure completely and end up being a lot of boilerplate. Most efforts around configuration of those standard resources so far has to generalize the setup transactions, but it might be time to setup a Foundation-owned helper contract for the most common setups - e.g. COA, Vault & NFT configuation.

IMO it'd be best to write up a short FLIP for the use case and offer the idea up for community feedback.

```

At the end of this section, the transaction now has an reference authorized with the `EVM.Call`
[entitlement](https://cadence-lang.org/docs/language/access-control#entitlements) to use in the `execute` block which
can be used call into EVM.

### Funding the COA

Next, we fund the COA with enough FLOW to cover the mint cost. This is done by withdrawing FLOW from the signer's
FlowToken Vault and depositing it into the COA.

```cadence
/* Fund COA with cost of mint */
//
// Borrow authorized reference to signer's FlowToken Vault
let sourceVault = signer.storage.borrow<auth(FungibleToken.Withdraw) &FlowToken.Vault>(
        from: /storage/flowTokenVault
    ) ?? panic("The signer does not store a FlowToken Vault object at the path "
            .concat("/storage/flowTokenVault. ")
            .concat("The signer must initialize their account with this vault first!"))
// Withdraw from the signer's FlowToken Vault
self.mintCost = 1.0
let fundingVault <- sourceVault.withdraw(amount: self.mintCost) as! @FlowToken.Vault
// Deposit the mint cost into the COA
self.coa.deposit(from: <-fundingVault)
```

> Taking a look at the full transaction, we can see an explicit check that the COA has enough FLOW to cover the mint cost

Reviewer: I didn't have enough Flow and failed before this.  Got the error that there wasn't enough in the vault to transfer to.

Tried to repro by switching accounts and even after refreshing, I'm getting:  Error
 1 error occurred:
	* transaction verification failed: [Error Code: 1006] invalid proposal key: public key 0 on account d83e39fd1baa9ac3 does not have a valid signature: [Error Code: 1008] invalid payload signature: public key 0 on account d83e39fd1baa9ac3 does not have a valid signature: signature is not valid

Author: Looks like that account only has `0.001` FLOW, try again after funding from faucet. The other invalid signer errors may be wallet issues.
